{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\sa120\widctlpar 
\b\f5\cf9\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar \b\f4\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-283\li283\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang
{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext15 List Bullet;}{\s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 footnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\title Refs Frequently Asked Questions}
{\author Tim Cutts}{\operator Tim Cutts}{\creatim\yr1995\mo4\dy3\hr18\min44}{\revtim\yr1996\mo7\dy15\hr10\min1}{\version2}{\edmins10}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords1183}{\nofchars6745}{\*\company  }{\vern57431}}\paperw11906\paperh16838 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\cvmme\sprsspbf\swpbdr\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 {\cs17 *{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super *} win16}} {\cs17 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} FAQ}${\footnote 
\pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $} Frequently Asked Questions}}{\cs17\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:01}} Frequently Asked Questions
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 These are the most commonly asked questions about {\i Refs}.  Please read these before mailing me!
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Crashes
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \tab {\strike Help!  }{\i\strike Refs}{\strike  caused a GPF in module XXX.FLT!  Is this a bug in }{\i\strike Refs}{\strike ?}{\v GPFFlt}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Formatting
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \tab {\strike How can I put bold and italics in my documents?}{\v BoldItalic}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Importing data
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \tab {\i\strike Refs}{\strike  won't import my MedLine literature search!  Why not?}{\v MedLine}
\par \tab {\i\strike Refs}{\strike  }{\i\strike still}{\strike  won't import my foreign data!}{\v TextFiles}
\par \tab {\strike I got a REF file from a friend and all the foreign characters are wrong!}{\v OEMAnsi}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Miscellaneous
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \tab {\i\strike Refs}{\strike  only has three document types - can we have some more?}{\v DocTypes}
\par \tab {\i\strike Refs}{\strike  won't let me change my document type!  It keeps resetting to 'Journal'.  Why?}{\v DefType}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 {\strike You haven't answered my question!}{\v Quest}
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs17 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} BoldItalic}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $}
 Bold and Italics}}{\cs17\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:02}} How can I put bold and italics in my documents?
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The simple answer is that you can't, very easily.  {\i Refs} uses a plain ASCII text file format that originally came from the UNIX world.  There is no provision for character formatting in that format
, and there probably never will be.  This is not quite the end of the story, though.  There are plain text description languages that allow such formatting.  Examples are Rich Text Format, as used by Windows and Macintosh wordprocessors,
 and TeX.  It is possible to persuade {\i Refs} to output formatted text in these formats by writing appropriate bibliography format lines.  Examples are supplied in the standard REFS.INI files.  If you save your formatted bibliography as FOO.RTF you c
an then import
 it into Word for Windows, for example, and Word will recognise the RTF and format the text appropriately.  This does however require some knowledge of RTF, which is hairy for newer computer users, but pretty straightforward for people who remember the ar
chaic days of CP/M and pre-Windows word-processors.  This help file includes {\strike a short tutorial on the use of RTF}{\v RTFTut}.
  In fact you can take this further; if you want bold and italics in your documents, you can write RTF directly into any edit control in {\i Refs}.  This will not appear formatted in {\i Refs}, but if you use the above method, it will appear correctly.

\par 
\par Starting in {\i Refs} 7.8.1, this is all simplified somewhat.  On the editing screen, the {\b Reference, Copy Formatted}
 item has been modified so that if you use an RTF bibliography format it will set the formatted version into the clipboard as RTF, so you can paste it into a word-processor perfectly adequately (as long as your word-processor supports RTF in the clipboard
).
\par 
\par Windows 95 and Windows NT 3.51 have an RTF edit control, which makes my job as a programmer much easier in this regard!  Work is in progress on a new version of {\i Refs} which incorporates this type of edit box.  This m
eans that the 32-bit version of this next release will be able to display your formatted bibliography complet
e with bold, italics and so on, and will also be able to print this formatted data out correctly.  This functionality will never be available in the 16-bit version, I\rquote m afraid.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} MedLine}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $}
 MedLine Problems}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:03}} Refs won't import my Medline literature search!  Why not?
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Sigh.  I loathe Medline.  There are two possible causes.  First of all, you must ensure that the file you are reading is a genuine Medline {\i database} file.  This means saving it in {\b tagged} format.  {\i Don't
} try to import the output of the search as formatted for human eyes; you can read it, but MEDLINE.FLT can't!  The filter requires raw Medline data.
\par 
\par The second reason is that
 there are many minor variations on Medline.  I have tried to cater for some of them as they have cropped up, but this is an ongoing process.  These are generally all variations in the way the SO field is formatted.  MEDLINE.FLT will try several ways of i
nterpreting this field, and if it fails to find one it knows about it will give up and store the whole thing in the Journal field for you to sort out by hand.
\par 
\par See also {\strike text file problems}{\v TextFiles}.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} TextFiles}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $}
 Text File Problems}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:04}} Refs {\i0 still} won't import my foreign data! (text file problems)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Computer scientists are a contrary lot, and they like designing things to be incompatible.  You could be having problems with incompatible text file formats, especially if you are transferring the data from a Macintosh or UNIX machine.  The sad thing is t
hat DOS, UNIX and MacOS all use different ways to mark the end of a line in a text file, and you need some little programs to convert them properly if things have gone wrong.
\par 
\par Macintoshes end their lines with a carriage return (CR, ASCII 0x0D or \\r in C-speak)
\par UNIX ends its lines with a line feed (LF, ASCII 0x0A or \\n)
\par MSDOS, Windows NT and OS/2 end their lines with both (CRLF, or \\r\\n)
\par 
\par Included with {\i Refs} are two tiny programs. MAC2DOS and UNIX2DOS, which will convert your files for you.  They are filters like MORE, so you should use them as follows:
\par 
\par MAC2DOS < MACFILE.TXT > DOSFILE.TXT
\par 
\par or
\par 
\par TYPE MACFILE.TXT | MAC2DOS > DOSFILE.TXT
\par 
\par This conversion should normally be applied to files automatically by ftp programs or Apple File Exchange, but other transfer methods do not always do it.  The filters will not modify a file in the correct format, so you can use them all the time.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} GPFFlt}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $}
 GPF in module XXX.FLT}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:05}} Help!  Refs caused a GPF in module XXX.FLT!  Is this a bug?
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Not necessarily.  Most of the import filters are fairly simple, and if you feed them the wrong sort of file, they will crash.  If the message says \lquote in module XXX.FLT' rather than \lquote 
in module REFS.EXE', then that means that the crash occurred while the filter code was executing, even though it says REFS.EXE caused the fault (it only says that because REFS.EXE 'owns' the filter that crashed).  So, if yo
u're sure your file format is correct, and you're still getting the crash, hassle whoever wrote the filter rather than me, since it's not {\i Refs}' fault!
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} DocTypes}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $}
 Document Types}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:06}} Refs only has three document types - can we have some more?
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Here we are again bound by the Refer file format, I'm afraid.  Refer only has three document title types (which is how {\i Refs}
 determines what sort of document it is).  These are %J, %B and %R.  There can't be any more since this would make {\i Refs}
 refer support non-standard.  Now, there is a solution to this, and many of the import filters will do it for you automatically when reading a new file, and that is that they will include the document type field of the foreign file as a keyword.  Then you
 can search by keyword for reviews, or whatever.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} DefType}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $}
 Can't Change Document Types}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:07}} Refs won't let me change my document type!  It keeps resetting to 'Journal'.  Why?{\strike 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 This is a problem with the way the refer file format, that {\i Refs}
 uses, works.  There are two title fields; %T and one of %B, %J and %R, depending on the document type.  In the editing window the main title box sets the %T field.  The smaller one below it sets %J, %B or %R according to reference type.  The idea is that
 this arrangement is useful for listing  chapters in a book.  The chapter title goes in %T, and the volume it's in %B.  If you just put a book title in %T, and nothing in %B, {\i Refs}
 will save the file without a B, J or R record for that reference.  When it comes to read the file again, it will not be able to determine the document type, since it normally keys on the existence of a B, J or R field, so it assumes J.
\par 
\par You just need to make sure that the book title {\i always} goes in the smaller field.  This is not a problem with searches or displaying titles, because {\i Refs} searches or displays the small title field instead if the %T field is empty.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} Quest}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $}
 Other Questions}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:99}} You haven't answered my question!
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You need to contact me.  See the entry \lquote {\strike About the author}{\v About}'.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs17\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super #} OEMAnsi}${\footnote \pard\plain \s16\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super $}
 Foreign accented characters corrupted!}+{\footnote \pard\plain \s16\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs17\super +} faq:08}} My non-English accented characters are corrupted!
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 If you get a Refer file that contains accented characters these may not display properly.  The cause of this is that DOS-based programs do not use t
he same character codings as Windows.  Open the File, Import dialog box.  Select the Refer format and click the Options button.  In the dialog there is a checkbox for OEM to ANSI character conversion.  You should select this if you are reading files creat
ed by a non-Windows program, or when saving files for export to a non-Windows program.  The rest of the time you should leave it switched off;  the ANSI character set is rather better for accented characters, and having the conversion enabled slows {\i 
Refs} down when saving and loading files.
\par 
\par }