{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f24\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 
heading 1;}{\s2\sb120\nowidctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\li360\nowidctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 heading 3;}{\s4\li360\nowidctlpar \f5\ul\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 heading 4;}{\s5\li720\nowidctlpar 
\b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 heading 5;}{\s6\li720\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\ul\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 heading 6;}{\s7\li720\nowidctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 heading 7;}{\s8\li720\nowidctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext16 heading 8;}{\s9\li720\nowidctlpar \i\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext15 footnote text;}{\s16\li720\nowidctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext16 Normal Indent;}{\*\cs17 \additive\super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\*\cs18 \additive\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s19\sa120\nowidctlpar \f4\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext19 Body Text;}{
\s20\fi-283\li283\nowidctlpar \f4\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext20 List;}}{\info{\author TJR Cutts}{\operator Tim Cutts}{\creatim\yr1992\mo10\dy22\hr13\min25}{\revtim\yr1997\mo7\dy21\hr8\min15}{\version2}{\edmins7}{\nofpages18}{\nofwords4052}{\nofchars23101}
{\*\company  }{\vern57431}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 {\cs18\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super *} Feric;win16}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {
\cs18\super $} Refs Help Contents}} Contents
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par {\strike Introduction}{\v Intro}
\par 
\par Information for FERIC users:  {\strike In English}{\v FERIC}     {\strike En Fran\'e7ais}{\v FERICF}
\par 
\par {\strike How to do it}{\v HowTo
\par }Instructions for beginners
\par 
\par {\strike Technical notes}{\v Tech}
\par Technical notes for programmers and the curious
\par 
\par {\strike Installation instructions for shared network volumes}{\v network}
\par 
\par {\strike Licence information}{\v Licence} (for {\b\i everyone}) and the {\strike Order Form}{\v OrderFrm}
\par 
\par {\strike About the author}{\v About} 
\par How to contact me
\par 
\par {\strike Acknowledgements and Credits}{\v Credits}
\par 
\par {\strike Frequently Asked Questions}{\v FAQ} 
\par Please read this section before mailing me
\par 
\par All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super *} Standard;win16}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $}
 Refs Help Contents}} Contents
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\strike Introduction}{\v Intro }
\par 
\par {\strike How to do it}{\v HowTo }
\par Instructions for beginners
\par 
\par {\strike Technical notes}{\v Tech }
\par Technical notes for programmers and the curious
\par 
\par {\strike Installation instructions for shared network volumes}{\v network }
\par 
\par {\strike Licence information}{\v Licence} (for {\b\i everyone}) and the {\strike Order Form}{\v OrderFrm }
\par 
\par {\strike About the author}{\v About} 
\par How to contact me
\par 
\par {\strike Acknowledgements and Credits}{\v Credits}
\par 
\par {\strike Frequently Asked Questions}{\v FAQ} 
\par Please read this section before mailing me
\par 
\par {\strike Version History}{\v History} 
\par What's new or fixed in recent versions
\par 
\par All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} Intro}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $} Introduction}K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super K} introduction}} Introduction
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par Welcome to {\i Refs}, a program for creating, maintaining and searching academic reference databases or other bibliographic data.
\par 
\par {\i Refs} provides a user-friendly interface for handling reference databases.  It provides the following features:
\par 
\par \pard \fi-360\li720\widctlpar 1.\tab Multiple Document Interface support allowing bibliography construction and searches to be made from multiple source files, and drag-and-drop between files.
\par 2.\tab Import and export databases from/to other formats.
\par 3.\tab Create bibliographies which can be printed, saved as text files, refer files, or pasted into other applications.
\par 4.\tab Store data in the following fields:  Author(s), Title, Date, Journal, Book Title, Report, Issuer, Editor, City, Volume, Number, Pages, Keywords and Abstract.
\par 5.\tab Single or multi-column display options.
\par 6.\tab Easy Cardfile-like keyboard operation.
\par 7.\tab Flexible sorting on multiple fields.
\par 8.\tab International support for languages other than English.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 The Interface
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 There are four main window types in {\i Refs}
\par \pard\plain \s3\li360\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 
\par Database windows
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \qc\widctlpar \{bmcwd data.bmp\}
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard\plain \s16\li720\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Each database window contains a single database file.  References can be freely copied and/or dragged between file windows, and from search windows to others.  References can also be dragged to the {\i 
bibliography window}, if it already exists.
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s3\li360\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 Bibliography window
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s16\li720\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
This is where the bibliography is displayed, in either database or text format, and from where it can be saved to disk or copied to the clipboard.  When in text format, it is displayed with the current printer font, and can be edited.
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s3\li360\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 {\strike Reference editing form}{\v EditRef}
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s16\li720\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
This appears when you view or edit a reference.  It displays the authors and date of the reference in the title bar, and contains edit fields for the various fields of the reference.  See Editing references{\v EditRef}
\par \pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s3\li360\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 {\strike Author form}{\v AddRef}
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s16\li720\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 This is used to edit the author or date fields of the reference that make up its title in the reference form, and also to specify the reference type (book or journal).
\par \pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Further information{\b0 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par There is World Wide Web page dedicated to {\i Refs} which I keep updated with plans and latest developments.  Example source code for import filters is also kept there.  If you have a WWW browser, you will find {\i Refs} information at:
\par 
\par {\f3 http://www.cyclin.demon.co.uk/
\par }
\par This site also contains details of my current postal address for registration purposes.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} About}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $} About}}
 About the author
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par Having completed my PhD in cell biology working in the Department of Zoology, Cambridge University, I now work as a UNIX system 
administrator for all the Biological Science departments in the University, maintaining protein and DNA sequence and structure databases and software for the analysis of these.  Windows programming is a hobby which I do not admit to in polite society.  {
\lang1024 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 74 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f24\fs20}}}
\par 
\par If you find a bug in {\i Refs}, or have any suggestions to make, please e-mail me directly at:
\par 
\par {\f3 refs@cyclin.demon.co.uk}
\par 
\par {\b Important: Please note that }{\b\i Refs} {\b is a personal project.  It has nothing to do with }{\b\i Cambridge University}{\b , so do not send them any mail concerning it, and please do not use my work e-mail address (tjrc1@mole.bio.cam.ac.uk) for }{
\b\i Refs}{\b  communications.}
\par 
\par When reporting a bug, should you be unlucky enough to find one, please tell me the following:
\par 
\par a)  What you were attempting to do; if the bug is not reproducible I won't be able to find it!  Give as many details as you can.
\par b)  What the error was, such as runtime error numbers if they occur.  All details are important.
\par c)  Program version number.  Exact version numbers are bound into the main program files, and can be read with File Manager.  Some of them are displayed by the Help, About dialog box.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f5\fs20\lang2057 d) \tab}\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pnlcltr\pnb0\pni0\pnf5\pnfs20\pnstart4\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxta ) }}Anything else that might be even remotely relevant
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par If you think anything might be remotely relevant, it probably is, so tell me!
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18 *{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super *} Standard;win32}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} Licence}$
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $} Licence}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super K} registering}} Licence and Registration Information
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Important:{\b0 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par This software comes under no warranty whatsoever, expressed or implied.  The author cannot be held responsible for any loss occurring as a result of the use of this program, directly or indirectly.  The author makes no guarantees as to the suitability of 
this software for any purpose.
\par 
\par Having got the nasty disclaimer out of the way, here's stuff you really might want to know:
\par 
\par There are three forms of {\i Refs} you may be running.
\par 
\par 1)\tab The unregistered version
\par 2)\tab A version registered on your behalf and supplied to you by another company
\par 3)\tab A fully registered copy for an individual.
\par 
\par Most of this information applies to users in categories 1 and 3, although there is some information for category 2 users at the end of this topic.
\par 
\par {\b\cf13 If you have downloaded a copy from the Internet or a public BBS that is not category 1, you (and that site) are committing software piracy.  Please report any such piracy to the author.}{\cf13 
\par }
\par This piece of software, unr
egistered, is fully functional, but time limited. After it has been installed on your machine for 30 days it will remind you to pay, and the time this warning remains on-screen for 30 seconds.  This should give you some time to evaluate its usefulness for
 you, without completely locking you out when the time runs out.
\par 
\par You are licensed to copy and distribute the unregistered version freely as long as you distribute the complete distribution and make no charge other than reasonable duplication costs.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Registration:
\par \pard\plain \s3\li360\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 Registration gets you:
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li1080\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 i)\tab A registration number to remove the nag screen.
\par ii)\tab Your registration fee covers a single-user copy of the program.  {\b You may not distribute the registered version to any other persons.}  Multiple licences are available at a discount, see below.
\par iii)\tab Those with e-mail addresses will receive notification of upgrades and so on, and the chance to test new versions before they are released.  You also get your say in what gets added and/or changed in the next version.  Many featu
res, such as the 'Copy formatted reference' menu item, have been added after suggestions from users like you!
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 How much does it cost?  See the {\strike Order Form}{\v OrderFrm}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To register, print out the {\strike order form}{\v OrderFrm} and mail it to me.  Once you receive your registration code from me, you can enter this into the program.  If you are over the 30 day limit, the {\b 
Register} button will allow you to do this.  If you are under the 30 day limit, you can choose {\b Register }from the {\b Help }menu.
\par {\b\fs24\cf9 
\par }When registering, please send me an e-mail address if you possibly can so that I can mail updates to you.
\par \pard\plain \s3\li360\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 My address can be found in the {\strike about}{\v About} section, as can information about the current state of development and plans for future versions.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super *} Feric}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} Licence}$
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $} Licence}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super K} registering}}{\fs16\up6  }Licence and Registration Information
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 You are using a custom version of {\i Refs} registered on your behalf and supplied to you by {\strike FERIC}{\v FERIC}
\par 
\par If you upgrade this copy of {\i Refs} to a version downloaded from the Internet or elsewhere, you will find the standard version is unregistered.  You are licenced to use this custom version of {\i Refs}
 only with FERIC supplied data.  Other use, and entitlement to support from the author and to upgrades, requires registration with the author.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Registration:
\par \pard\plain \s3\li360\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 Registration gets you:
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s16\fi-360\li1080\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 i)\tab A registration number to remove the nag screen.
\par ii)\tab Rights to support from the author.
\par iii)\tab Those with e-mail addresses will receive notification of upgrades and so on
, and the chance to test new versions before they are released.  You also get your say in what gets added and/or changed in the next version.  Many features, such as the 'Copy formatted reference' menu item, have been added after suggestions from users li
ke you!
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 How much does it cost?  See the {\strike Order Form}{\v OrderFrm}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 To register, print out the {\strike order form}{\v OrderFrm}
 and mail it to me.  Once you receive your registration code from me, you can enter this into the program.  This will almost completely convert your customised version into a standard {\i Refs}
 edition.  The only really visible difference from the real thing will be the title bar will still say 'FERIC Refs'.
\par {\b\fs24\cf9 
\par }When registering, please send me an e-mail address if you possibly can so that I can mail updates to you.
\par \pard\plain \s3\li360\widctlpar \b\f5\fs20\cf9\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 My address can be found in the {\strike about}{\v About} section, as can information about the current state of development and plans for future versions.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Important:{\b0 
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
\par This software comes under no warranty whatsoever, expressed or implied.  The author cannot be held responsible for any loss occurring during the use of this program, directly or indirectly.
\par \pard \nowidctlpar 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $} Order Form}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} OrderFrm}}
 Refs Order Form
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cf9 
Please note that I may have moved house by the time you read this (my life is a little chaotic at the moment).  To avoid problems with cheques getting lost in the post or sent to the wrong address, please send me an e-mail message at }{\b\cf9 
refs@cyclin.demon.co.uk}{\cf9  first to confirm details, if at all possible.  You can also get details of my current postal address from the WWW page at }{\b\cf9 http://www.cyclin.demon.co.uk/}{\cf9 
   I thoroughly recommend sending payment by registered mail, to avoid mishaps.
\par 
\par }\pard \sb120\sa120\widctlpar {\f3\fs28 Name:___________________________________________
\par Company:________________________________________
\par E-mail:_________________________________________
\par Refs Version:___________________________________
\par           No. of Refs licenses:_________________
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1890\cellx3240\cellx4590 \pard \widctlpar\intbl No. of licences\cell Each (UKP)\cell Each (US$)\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1890\cellx3240\cellx4590 \pard \widctlpar\intbl 
1-4 licences\cell \'a329.99\cell $49.99\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \pard \widctlpar\intbl 5-25 licences\cell \'a324.99\cell $39.99\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \pard \widctlpar\intbl 26-99 licences\cell \'a319.99\cell $31.99\cell \pard 
\widctlpar\intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1890\cellx3240\cellx4590 \pard \widctlpar\intbl Upgrade from custom versions\cell \'a320.00\cell N/A\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \pard \sb120\sa120\widctlpar {\f3\fs28 
\par Sub Total_______________________________________
\par }\pard \fi-1980\li1980\sb120\sa120\widctlpar {\f3\fs28 Payment: [ ] Eurocheque (Sterling)
\par          [ ] International Money Order (Sterling)
\par }\pard \fi-1980\li1980\sa120\widctlpar {\f3\fs28          [ ] Sterling cheque drawn on a UK bank.
\par }\pard \fi-1980\li1980\ri1890\sa120\widctlpar {\f3\fs28          [ ] Cheque in US dollars (see below).
\par }\pard \sa120\widctlpar {\f3\fs28          [ ] Cash
\par 
\par Surcharge for payment in US$  ($8.00):   _______
\par 
\par                              GRAND TOTAL:_______
\par 
\par 
\par Signed:_________________________________________
\par Date:___________________________________________
\par }\pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super *} Standard}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $} History}#
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} History}} Version History
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.81 (April 1997)
\par \pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Accumulated bug fixes to {\i Refs}
 7.8, plus an enhanced bibliography format syntax to allow greater flexibility in author name formatting.  RTF bibliography formats send data to the clipboard in CF_RTF rather than CF_TEXT format, when using {\b Reference, Copy Formatted}.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.8 (February 1996)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Export functionality added.  Commonly used keyword list added.  Ability to edit bibliography format lines added.  Changed from distributing a demo version to distributing a time-limited version.  Link mode removed (it's broken, and no-one seems to use it 
anyway).  First version of {\i Refs} also available as a native 32 bit program for Windows NT and Windows 95.  Windows 95/NT version has a new toolbar.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.72
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Bugfixes
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.7
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 New check-box to set a window searchable.  Various bug fixes.  The arrow buttons i
n the Edit form no longer cause the window to be closed and re-opened (should save some time!).  Status bar now uses SYSTEM_FONT instead of ANSI_VAR_FONT so the status bar now works with non-Roman character sets (such as Japanese).
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.62
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Bugfixes
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.6 (10th February 1995)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Improvements made to the sorting of names.  Formatting code extended again (test for field not present, and prefix and suffix fields).
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.57 (1st February 1995)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 REFS.INI may now be found in the WINDOWS directory, making Refs rather more network-friendly.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.56  (26th January 1995)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 By popular request, the status bar now always shows you how many references are in the active window.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.55  (25th January 1995)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Bugfixes.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.54  (21st January 1995)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Bibliography format lines now allow nested formats.  {\i Refs} now remembers if the bibliography was last displayed formatted. If a journal and a book have the same authors, title etc., {\i Refs}
 no longer considers them identical.  If a search returns no results, the empty search window is automatically destroyed.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.53
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Bugfixes.  Made {\i Refs} check book title field for comparison if title field is empty.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.51
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Bugfixes.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.5
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Major internal reworking of database to increase memory efficiency.  Printing, at last!  More intelligent import filter loading.  Fonts used for printing and database windows are user-selectable.  Searches now create a new window and all open windows can 
be searched automatically.  Loading, saving and resorting files no longer grabs control of the machine so 
aggressively.  Drag and drop between database windows has been implemented.  If no author is found in a reference, the editor's name will be displayed instead, if supplied. Confirmation options moved to a separate dialog box.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.42 (15th July 1994)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Refs now remembers the last four files you opened or saved, and adds them to the File menu so that you can quickly re-open them.  Mats wrote an import DLL for Current Contents Reference Manager files (IMPCCREF.DLL), and updated IMPCHEM.DLL too.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.41 (17th April 1994)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Bugfixes.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.4
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The {\strike import DLL syntax}{\v DLLInterface}
 has been changed.  DLLs written for earlier versions of Refs will not work with this version, and will crash the program.  The interface now uses MMSYSTEM buffered file I/O.  This should make it much easier for C/C++ programmers to write DLLs for Refs, w
hereas before it was only really possible in Pascal.  MedLine and BIDS filters updated to new format.  The BIDS filter should now work with BIDS-Embase searches properly, and import their Abs
tracts.  Minor changes to MedLine DLL to work properly with some MedLine formats.  Fixed bibliography syntax to distinguish between B, R and J fields.  New item 'Copy formatted reference' added to editing dialog Edit menu, which copies the entire referenc
e to the clipboard according to the current bibliography format setting. Refs now remembers the size you last selected for the editing dialog and uses it.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.3 (19th January 1994)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 All resources removed and placed in a separate DLL, to allow for easy creation of future versions in other languages.  Please see {\strike Refs and other languages}{\v language}. You can specify {\strike 
how Refs sorts its display}{\v OptSort}.  Maximum length of bibliography format lines increased from 63 to 255 characters.  Bibliography format allows insertion of line breaks in formatted references, using the C-style '\\
n' notation.  Status line fixed to respond to menu changes properly.  File import dialog greys the Options... and OK buttons if a bad REFS.INI entry is selected.  The main editing dialog has
 been made slightly smaller.  It should now fit 640x480 screens better.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.2
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Buttons to move to next/previous references.  Editor field now allows multiple entries in the same way as the Authors field.  If the %T title field is empty, the Journal/book title field is shown instead when titles are being shown in the main list.  The 
drop down journal list can be edited in the program rather than directly in REFS.INI.  It is now context sensitive depending on reference type.  Main editing window now resizea
ble for those of us with larger screens who want more room!  Mats again updated IMPCHEM.DLL.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.1
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
3D look now provided by CTL3D.DLL rather than BWCC.DLL, for reasons of consistency with Chicago (still over two years away when 7.1 was released) and Cairo. Case sensitivity has been removed during sorting.  Sorting now uses the language driver.  Mats vas
tly improved IMPCHEM.DLL
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 7.0
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 New MDI Interface, and associated cut/paste between windows.  The Edit form changed considerably:  1) 'Journal title' box
 now a drop down combo box to allow storing of frequently used journal names  2) New 'OK and New' button, for rapid entry of multiple references.  Bibliography menu removed (functions were either moved elsewhere or are obsolete).  The Bibliography is now 
consolidated in a single window, with formatted and list display toggle. Many file menu options are now obsolete and have been removed (such as 'save displayed references'). New IMPCHEM.DLL for Chemical Abstracts, written by Mats Valli.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 6.1-6.3
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Refinements of import DLL mechanism, and other changes that I've forgotten.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 6.0 (22 July 1993)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Expandable foreign file import DLL support added.  Menu added to main editing window for mouse-based clipboard functions.  Cut/Copy/Paste/Undo are now more accessible for all field edit controls in this dialog box.

\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 5.2
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Changed handling of Author names and Keywords to make them more flexible.  Some minor changes to the appearance of some dialogs.  File loadin
g and reference insertion much faster, at the expense of slightly more memory usage.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 5.1 (10 June 1993)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Owner drawn list box obeys the colours specified in Control Panel, in the same way as File Manager.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 5.0 (29 May 1993)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
The first release of what I considered to be a finished program.  Consequently its status changed to shareware, and I changed the version numbering policy.  Maximum capacity of over 4 million references, rather than 16,380!  Main display changed to owner 
drawn list box.  As well as now having pretty icons, this also means that more entries are allowed in the list box, so larger searches can be performed.  Altered and improved bibliography formatting structures.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 0.41
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Small fixes to some incorrect behaviour in publisher and city edit controls, and also in multiple selections in the main window.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 0.4  (7 May 1993)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Generic support for all % field tags, even those not explicitly found in editing dialog boxes.  Explicit support for book references added.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 0.3  (1 May 1993)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Bibliography facilities added.  Ability to make multiple selections in main display.  Number in volume field support.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 0.2  (21 April 1993)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Fairly major re-write, especially of file handling and internal data structure.  For compatibility reasons, converted to using ASCII UNIX refer file format.  Improved keyboard use.  Added keyword field support.  Added status bar descriptions of menu comma
nds.  Expand/Narrow search added.  Added display options.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Refs 0.1  (October 1992)
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Never publicly released, but anyway:
\par 
\par Stored data in a proprietary binary format.  Allowed searches to be made for specific references.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super *} Feric}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $}
 FERIC Information (English)}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} FERIC}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super K}
 FERIC;Forest Engineering Research Institute of Canada; Institut canadien de recherches en g\'e9nie forestier}} Forest Engineering Research Institute of Canada
\par Publication List
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\strike Information en Fran\'e7ais}{\v FERICF}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Overview
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 This software contains a listing of all FERIC's publications. You can search the list by date, author, title, keyword, and report type to locat
e specific publications. Titles, authors, and abstracts can be printed or copied to other Windows applications. When you locate the publications of interest, they can be ordered from FERIC at either of these locations:
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar \f4\lang2057 FERIC\line Publications \line 580 Boulevard St. Jean\line Pointe Claire, Quebec, Canada  H9R 3J9\line Telephone: (514) 694-1140\line Fax: (514) 694-4351\line Email:  publications@mtl.feric.ca
\par FERIC\line Publications\line 2601 East Mall\line Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6T 1Z4\line Telephone: (604) 228-1555\line Fax: (604) 228-0999
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 The price to non-members of FERIC is shown in the Publication Number field (designated "No") on the Edit screen.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 REFS Software
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
This version of REFS has been licensed by FERIC for the express purpose of displaying FERIC's publication list. If you use the software for any other purpose, you are required to purchase a separate licence from its author.
\par 
\par Other than the licensing, this version of REFS is identical to the standard version. Use all the conventional REFS commands for searching and displaying the publication list.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Help
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Help for the REFS program is available to FERIC member companies. Contact FERIC at either of the addresses shown above. The licensing arrangement between FERIC and REFS's author excludes direct assistance from him.

\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Search Strategies
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 
Start your search with a more generalized term than with a specialized term. For example, the keyword "skid" as opposed to "skidding", "skidder", or "skidders". A search for "skid" will find documents with any of the other keywords, but the converse is no
t true. Searching for "skid" would find the titles:  "Skidding on steep slopes", "Evaluation of wheel skidders", and "Using tracked skidders", while searching for "skidder" would miss the first title
\par 
\par The database is organized into three categories, each distinguished with a different icon in the publication list.
\par 
\par 1. Technical Reports and Technical Notes are shown with a green icon that resembles an open book.
\par 2. Field Notes have a yellow icon that looks like a single sheet of paper.
\par 3. Special Reports and Handbooks are displayed with an icon with a blue pencil.
\par 
\par The "Journal/Book Title/Report" field contains information that allows you to distinguish between these report types. Technical Reports will always contain the characters "TR-", Technical Notes "TN-", Field Notes "FN-" and Handbooks "HB-". You can restric
t your search to a particular class of report by including the appropriate information in your search criterion. 
\par 
\par In order to search for compound terms, you should start with 
one term, then expand the search, and finally narrow the search. For example, you could search for publications from 1993, and then expand it to include publications from 1994, and 1995. You could then narrow the search to publications with the keyword "s
kid". This would result in a list of all reports about skidding from 1993 to 1995. You could then narrow the search again with Journal/Book Title/Report equals "FN-" and click the "{\i not}
" button. This excludes any of the Field Notes about skidding, but includes just the Technical Reports and Technical Notes.
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18\super *{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super *} Feric}${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $}
 FERIC Information (Fran\'e7ais)}#{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} FERICF}K{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super K}
 FERIC;Forest Engineering Research Institute of Canada; Institut canadien de recherches en g\'e9nie forestier}} Institut canadien de recherches en g\'e9nie forestier:  Liste des publications
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\strike Information in English}{\v FERIC}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Introduction
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Le logiciel contient une liste de toutes les publications de FERIC. On peut interroger la liste par date, auteur, titre, mot cl\'e9 et type de rapport pour trouver des publications d'int\'e9r\'ea
t particulier. Les titres, les auteurs et les r\'e9sum\'e9s peuvent \'eatre imprim\'e9s ou copi\'e9s dans d'autres applications Windows. Il est possible de commander les publications d\'e9sir\'e9es en s'adressant \'e0 FERIC, \'e0
 l'un des deux endroits suivants :
\par \pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar \f4\lang2057 {\scaps 
\par FERIC}\line Publications\line 580, boul. Saint-Jean\line Pointe-Claire (Qu\'e9bec), Canada  H9R 3J9\line T\'e9l.: (514) 694-1140\line T\'e9l\'e9c.: (514) 694-4351\line Email : publications@mtl.feric.ca
\par \pard\plain \qj\widctlpar\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\hyphpar0 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\expnd0\expndtw-3 
\par }\pard\plain \s19\sa120\widctlpar \f4\lang2057 {\scaps FERIC}\line Publications\line 2601 East Mall\line Vancouver, B.C., Canada  V6T 1Z4\line T\'e9l.: (604) 228-1555\line T\'e9l\'e9c.: (604) 228-0999
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Les personnes qui ne sont pas membres de FERIC peuvent se procurer des publications au prix indiqu\'e9 dans le champ Num\'e9ro de publication (Publication Number), d\'e9sign\'e9 No sur l'\'e9cran Edition (Edit).

\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Logiciel REFS
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 FERIC a obtenu une licence d'exploitation de cette version du logiciel REFS dans le but expr\'e8s d'afficher la liste des publications de FERIC. Les personnes d\'e9sirant utiliser le logiciel \'e0
 toute autre fin sont pri\'e9es d'acheter de l'auteur une licence s\'e9par\'e9e.
\par 
\par Sauf pour la licence d'exploitation, cette version de REFS est identique \'e0 la version standard. Il suffit d'utiliser les commandes habituelles de REFS pour interroger et afficher la liste des publications.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Aide
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Une aide est offerte aux compagnies membres de FERIC pour l'utilisation du programme REFS. On peut communiquer avec FERIC \'e0 l'une ou l'autre des adresses mentionn\'e9
es ci-dessus. L'entente d'autorisation entre FERIC et l'auteur de REFS exclut toute aide directe de la part de ce dernier.
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb120\widctlpar \b\f5\cf9\lang2057 Strat\'e9gies d'interrogation
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 D\'e9buter la recherche avec un terme simple d'o\'f9 des termes plus complexes peuvent \'eatre d\'e9riv\'e9s. Par exemple, le mot cl\'e9 charge est plus efficace pour faire une recherche que les mots cl\'e9
s chargement, chargeuse ou autochargeur. Une recherche \'e0 partir du mot charge trouvera les documents correspondant \'e0 tous ces autres mots cl\'e9
s, mais le contraire n'est pas vrai. Une recherche avec le mot chargement ne donnera pas les publications qui contiennent le mot cl\'e9 chargeuse.
\par La base de donn\'e9es est organis\'e9e en trois cat\'e9gories, dont chacune se distingue par une ic\'f4ne diff\'e9rente dans la liste des publications.
\par 
\par 1. Les Rapports techniques et les Fiches techniques sont identifi\'e9s par une ic\'f4ne verte qui ressemble \'e0 un livre ouvert.
\par 2. Les Communiqu\'e9s techniques sont indiqu\'e9s par une ic\'f4ne jaune qui a l'aspect d'une simple feuille de papier.
\par 3. Les Manuels sont accompagn\'e9s d'une ic\'f4ne qui repr\'e9sente une feuille de papier avec un crayon bleu.
\par {\expnd0\expndtw-3 
\par }Le champ Revue sp\'e9cialis\'e9e/Titre de livre/Rapport (Journal/Book Title/Report) contient de l'information qui permet de distinguer entre ces trois types de documents. Les Rapports techniques contiendront toujours les caract\'e8
res RT- ou TR-, les Fiches techniques FT- ou TN-, les Communiqu\'e9s techniques CT- ou FN- et les Manuels MN- ou HB-. On peut limiter la recherche \'e0 une cat\'e9gorie particuli\'e8re de documents en introduisant l'information appropri\'e9e dans les crit
\'e8res d'interrogation.
\par 
\par Pour une recherche comprenant plusieurs \'e9l\'e9ments, commencer avec un seul \'e9l\'e9ment, puis \'e9tendre la recherche et, enfin, la restreindre. Par exemple, on peut chercher les publications de 1993, puis \'e9
largir la recherche en y ajoutant les publications de 1994 et 1995. On peut ensuite restreindre la recherche aux publications qui contiennent le mot charge. On obtiendra ainsi une liste de tous les rapports traitant de chargement depuis 1993 jusqu'\'e0
 1995. Il est alors possible de restreindre \'e0 nouveau la recherche en inscrivant CT- FN- dans le champ Revue sp\'e9cialis\'e9e/Titre de livre/Rapport (Journal/Book Title/Report) et en cliquant le bouton non (not). Cela \'e9
liminera de la liste tous les Communiqu\'e9s techniques traitant de chargement, mais conservera les Rapports techniques, les Fiches techniques et les Manuels.
\par \pard\plain \s1\sa120\widctlpar \cbpat16 \b\i\f4\fs48\cf2\lang2057 \page {\cs18\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super $} Credits and Acknowledgements}} {\cs18\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\nowidctlpar 
\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\cs18\super #} Credits}} Credits and Acknowledgements
\par \pard\plain \nowidctlpar \f5\fs20\lang2057 Although the majority of {\i Refs} is my own work, I would like to acknowledge the help I have received from various sources, some of whom don't know, and never will know, just how much they helped!
\par 
\par Firstly, those programmers and translators who have produced modules for the program:
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1890\cellx9468 \pard \nowidctlpar\intbl {\b Keith Dipboye\cell }Japanese translation\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1890\cellx9468 \pard \nowidctlpar\intbl {\b Gerald Pfeifer\cell }
German translation, and endless futile attempts to get me to organise the resource script better {\lang1024 {\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 74 \\f "Wingdings" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f24\fs20}}}\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \pard \nowidctlpar\intbl {\b 
Felix Sanchez\cell }Spanish translation\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \pard \nowidctlpar\intbl {\b Jos\'e9 Novo\cell }Portuguese translation\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1890\cellx9468 \pard \nowidctlpar\intbl {
\b Mats Valli\cell }Current Contents and Chemical Abstracts filters\cell \pard \widctlpar\intbl \row \pard \nowidctlpar 
\par And other individuals and groups:
\par 
\par {\b Ian Carpenter} for his tutorial on the use of RTF and for his fantastic talent at discovering bugs.
\par {\b Chris Mercer}, another expert bug finder.
\par 
\par {\b Ian Jackson} for providing me with ftp and world-wide-web space in the past on his machine {\b chiark.chu.cam.ac.uk}, and for his valiant attempts to get me to use Linux rather than Windows NT.
\par 
\par {\b Prof. Stephen Downes}, my PhD supervisor, for not killing me when I'm working on {\i Refs} rather than on my thesis!
\par 
\par All the contributors to the Usenet newsgroups {\b comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.*} and {\b alt.comp.shareware.programmer}.  In particular, those Windows programming gurus {\b Chris Marriott}, {\b John Grant} and {\b David Webber}
 who between them seem to know just about everything there is to know about shareware Windows programming.
\par 
\par The contributors to {\b ucam.chat} for giving me something to laugh at every day.
\par 
\par All those at Microsoft responsible for putting together the MSDN Development Library.  Without it I'd be sunk without trace.
\par 
\par And last but far from least, the registered users of {\i Refs}, for supporting my little project over the last few years.  Thanks to all of you, and I hope this continues for some time to come!
\par 
\par }